Barra data, we'll be using factor data that is generated by Barra.
This will be good practice because Barra data is used throughout the industry.
Note that we've preprocessed
the raw Barra data files and sort the data into pickle files.
The alternative would be to load the original data,
and perform the parsing each time,
each time you do the back-test.
Since parsing and preprocessing takes time,
we recommend doing the preprocessing once and
saving the preprocessed data for later use in your back-test.
Now, this is important because we did spend a lot of time preprocessing
the raw files so that when you actually run the back-test it would be faster.
We want to bring this up so that when you're actually
on the job and working with the raw files,
you'll also understand the process of trying to optimize for speed by first
parsing out things like strings into numbers or strings into dates, for instance.
Factors. Note that the data fields that start with
the prefix U-S-F-A-S-T are factor exposures.
One column for each factor.
We will use some of these as Alpha factors and the rest as risk factors.
The reason this makes sense is that for the time periods in which we're back-testing,
some of these factors were able to produce better than average returns.
Barra works with his clients and gathers
information about Alphas that worked in the past.
These were calculated on historical data to
produce the factor exposure data found in Barra.
Here's a partial list of the Barra factors in our dataset and their definitions.
These are collected from documentation by Barra.
There are style factors and industry factors.
The industry factors will be used as risk factors.
You can consider using the style factors as Alpha factors.
Any factors not use as Alpha factors can be included in the risk factors category.
So this will be in the exercise notebook.
So take your time reading through some of these descriptions,
and when you look at the actual column names,
they will be abbreviated versions of what you see here.
So these are the full descriptions,
and you'll be able to match the full descriptions with
the shortened names in the headers of the tables.
Now, one point I'll make is that there's
a separate variable DataFrame that's holding the covariances of the factors,
and it looks like this.
There's a column for one of the factors and a column for another factor and a column
for the covariance between these two factors as well as the date that is recorded on.
So there's a DataFrame for each date,
and with any state or frame,
there's the pairwise covariances of each of the factors.